hi everybody Bob with knives town here
today we're gonna take a look at a
product from k-bar knives this
particular model is the machete Cutlass
and it is a full-sized shopping utility
kind of a tool comes with a sheath and
this thing is a beauty just a little bit
about the sheath the sheath is made of
two materials its Cordura on this side
and leather on this side it does have a
support ring here at this end and it
does also have a belt loop that is held
on with with a dangle just a metal loop
there and that and that rides rides on
the belt things at the side that way
close up look on that it's it's not
fancy it's but it's a serviceable sheaf
like I said made of Cordura here on this
side it's got a couple of heavy snaps
that hold the hold the blade in there's
a lute for hanging on this side and
there the leather is stitched
as your belt lived there
the blade is kept in with with two snaps
here it go like that and then and then
the sheath opens along the edge like
that so it opens that way
there's the machete that has a 11 inch
blade made of 1085 carbon steel it's a
total overall length is sixteen point
five inches it does weight 1.2 pounds
for the blade steel thickness is 1.7
inches I'm sorry I'm sorry point one
seven one the handle is made of kraton G
so it's a it's a very weather resistant
you know in weather impervious type of
material the blade is coated with the
black protective coating which with 1085
steel you you do want to do that it is
it will be prone to rust on the exposed
steel surface which would be just down
here at the edge and the and the knife
does ship with with a coating of grease
on the edge there to protect it
but you can see that that that thick
black coating on there that protects the
steel the the blade here it is hollow
ground this is a hollow grind that
begins
well far down on the blade and then the
actual edge is cut at a 20 degree angle
so it's it is it's surprisingly sharp
offer through this kind of a tool
it is really its release I've got a good
edge to it
it's a little more sharp it's a little
more sharp here than it is back here I
think but it's plenty sharp all the way
around the handle is it's shaped there
to accept your hand in a very natural
way that'll keep this front piece keeps
your keeps your hand from moving forward
and then that grabs your hand in the
rear there so as you're swinging it
there's no way that's gonna you know
come slipping out of your hand you've
got a nice a nice grip there that'll
catch on the heel of your hand
the handle is more oval than round but
it's it's it's pretty close to round
there are grip grip rings cut into it
otherwise it is relatively smooth there
is a very slight texturing here but
really it's it's the it's these rings
these grooves cut into it that's gonna
give help with your grip as well as of
course of course the you know the shape
of it it does have a lanyard hole here
if it feels like just a really tough
plastic that that does have just the
slightest amount of it almost feels like
there's just a very thin coating of
rubber over it
it's it certainly is blade heavy as you
would expect so when you swing that it's
gonna it's gonna come come down with
force and give you a good chop this
isn't a new product KK bar has been
producing this for a while now and you
can go on the on the internet on the
blade forms and and look up this look
this up and there's plenty of very
favourable opinions out there about this
it's a good camp knife it's great for
clearing brush you can do some batana
with it you can chop for a campfire you
know clear a campsite it's it's just
it's just a good hard using machete
chopping tool and it comes with with
this sheath will keep it at your side
and it's for the price it's it can't be
beat
that's the K bar machete Cutlass thanks
for watching I'll see you again